WEBSPIDER USER GUIDE
====================

Purpose
-------

WebSpider keeps one Master Spider and multiple project-specific Sub-Spiders available through a browser. This guide is installed by WebSpider at:

    .webspider/WEBSPIDER_USER_GUIDE.txt

Every Master and Sub-Spider can read this file when the user asks how WebSpider works or how to perform an operation. The installed package refreshes it whenever an agent is launched. A WebSpider source checkout is not required.

1. Roles and mental model
-------------------------

Master Spider
    The on-demand multi-project manager. Engage it for unattended oversight, delegation and follow-up, cross-project coordination, exceptions, or one integrated portfolio result. It should not relay or narrate routine direct Sub-Spider work.

Sub-Spider / worker
    A persistent, first-class user-facing agent assigned to one registered project root, often on another machine. The user normally works with it directly. Its routine work and status remain local unless the Master delegated the result or needs to act.

Meta-Spider
    A separate, user-invoked Codex session for installing, upgrading, diagnosing, or repairing WebSpider itself. It is not part of normal portfolio work and should not routinely prod the Master.

Hub
    The authoritative WebSpider service. It stores projects, threads, messages, tasks, reminders, policies, events, audit records, and node registration in SQLite.

Node
    A workstation connected outbound to the Hub. It owns local workspace paths, running PTYs, Codex processes, terminal logs, and node-local command receipts.

2. Normal workflows
-------------------

Direct project mode
    Open the project's Sub-Spider and talk to it directly. This is the normal foreground workflow for project-specific questions and work. Use its Text box or Conversation tab for durable instructions; Direct mode remains available for interactive terminal control.

Managed portfolio mode
    Tell the Master what should continue while you are away or what requires delegation, follow-up, cross-project coordination, exception handling, or integration. The Master should use durable tasks, reminders, and targeted messages without making you supervise terminals.

The modes may be mixed. Direct Sub-Spider activity does not pass through the Master and should not interrupt it. A Sub-Spider explicitly notifies the Master only for a Master-delegated result, requested milestone, blocker, material risk, or decision requiring coordination.

In either mode, keep important work products in clean Git repositories, commit meaningful checkpoints, and use durable WebSpider messages, tasks, reminders, and document handoffs for work that must survive browser or network interruptions.

3. Browser interaction surfaces
-------------------------------

Master terminal
    The live Master Codex PTY. Closing or reloading the browser does not stop it. Direct keyboard input goes to the PTY and is visible in the node-local terminal log.

Primary-agent Text box
    On either the Master or a Sub-Spider primary terminal, Text box submissions are accepted as durable WebSpider messages and delivered directly to that selected agent. Prefer this for important instructions that should remain recoverable in the WebSpider thread. An unsent draft is stored separately for each terminal in the current browser tab, so switching terminals, navigating elsewhere, or reloading the page does not discard or mix drafts. Sending or closing that terminal clears its draft.

Conversation tab
    Shows durable WebSpider messages. Messages are queued while a node is offline and delivered when it reconnects.

Sub-Spider terminal
    A direct view of that worker's PTY. It does not route through the Master. The network path is browser -> Hub -> owning node -> PTY.

Additional terminal tabs
    Independent login shells for monitoring or ad hoc commands. They are not orchestration targets and do not receive Master/Sub-Spider messages.

Direct mode
    Best for normal terminal control, interactive programs, control keys, and short commands.

Text box mode
    Best for drafting or mouse-editing text. On any primary Master or Sub-Spider terminal it creates a durable message to that agent. On auxiliary shell tabs it sends to the PTY. Enter sends; Shift+Enter inserts a newline without sending.

Paste an image
    Paste a PNG, JPEG, GIF, or WebP into a terminal or its text box with the keyboard shortcut or context menu. WebSpider stages it visibly without uploading or sending anything. Press Enter to write a private copy under `.webspider/uploads/` in that agent's workspace and send the agent a durable message containing the exact local path and checksum. Use Shift+Enter for a newline in text-box mode. Images may be up to 8 MiB. Uploads remain in the workspace until removed.

Attach a file
    Open the intended Master or Sub-Spider terminal and choose Attach file. WebSpider stages up to four selected files visibly; nothing uploads or reaches the agent until Enter. Each file may be up to 8 MiB. Enter writes private checksum-verified copies under that agent workspace's `.webspider/uploads/` directory and sends their exact paths to that agent.

Upload a workspace file without sending a message
    Open the agent's Files tab, enter the destination folder, and choose Upload files. Select stop, keep both, or replace for name conflicts. The browser streams each file in bounded chunks and resumes from the workstation's last confirmed byte after a transient request failure. This route does not create a message, wake the agent, or treat the file as an instruction. Files may be up to 64 GiB.

Preview a molecular structure
    In an agent's Files tab, select a `.pdb`, `.cif`, or `.mmcif` file. WebSpider loads its local Mol* renderer only for that preview. Choose one chain or All, set a color or restore Distinct chains, and toggle Cartoon, Surface, or Side chains for the selected chain set. Drag to rotate and scroll to zoom. Structure bytes stay on the authenticated WebSpider path; no external viewer or CDN receives them.

Maths mode
    The same xterm-parsed transcript, spacing, and line wrapping as Terminal mode, with recognized TeX equations typeset by the locally bundled MathJax. It does not reflow prose as Markdown. Standard \(...\), \[...\], $...$, and $$...$$ forms work; WebSpider also recognizes agent output that puts a TeX equation between standalone [ and ] lines.

Refresh terminal display
    If text looks misaligned after resizing, restoring, or switching windows, choose Refresh in the terminal toolbar. WebSpider rebuilds xterm from the authoritative terminal log, recalculates its rows and columns, forces a redraw, and confirms the result. Focus, visibility, view-mode, and text-box changes also trigger a lightweight refit automatically. Refresh does not take terminal control; it synchronizes the PTY size only when this browser already holds the control lease.

Terminal control
    Many browsers may watch, but only one attachment holds the input lease. Choose Take control to type. Another viewer remains read-only until control is released or expires.

4. Projects and Sub-Spiders
---------------------------

Add project
    Use Add project in the portfolio. WebSpider creates the project record and a short-lived, single-use worker enrollment command.

Connect worker
    Run the generated enrollment command once on the intended node from the directory that should become that project's workspace root. A node connects outbound; it does not open an inbound WebSpider port.

One node, multiple projects
    A node may register several project roots. Each project receives its own Sub-Spider and workspace boundary.

One project, multiple Git repositories
    This is supported. Do not assume the project root itself is one repository.

Archive
    Hides an inactive project while retaining WebSpider history. Active agents, shells, or tasks must be stopped or completed first.

Delete permanently
    Available only after archive and exact-name confirmation. It removes WebSpider's records, not workspace files.

5. Durable orchestration
------------------------

Messages
    Accepted transactionally by the Hub with an idempotency key. Offline messages remain queued. Important instructions should use the selected Master or Sub-Spider's Text box or Conversation surface rather than relying only on direct terminal keystrokes.

Tasks
    Detached commands assigned to a registered agent/root. Tasks have durable IDs, states, attempts, terminal logs, and exit results. A task can notify itself or the Master when it completes.
    A Sub-Spider-created task returns to that Sub-Spider by default. Master-created work returns to the Master. Use an explicit self, master, or none target to override this.

Completion hooks
    A task may inject a durable user-role message when it finishes. The message includes task ID, title, status, source agent, and optional custom completion text.

Reminders
    One-shot or recurring future messages. They survive Hub restarts, can target the creating Sub-Spider or the Master, and can be listed or cancelled.

Documents
    Long or byte-exact text should use document handoff. WebSpider checksum-verifies the content, writes a mode-0600 file under the destination workspace's .webspider/inbox directory, and sends a short durable message naming it.

Large or binary files between agents
    Agents on different machines do not need SSH access. Both nodes must be online while WebSpider relays bounded chunks through the Hub into the destination's `.webspider/inbox/`. Per-chunk and completed-file SHA-256 checks, confirmed offsets, and atomic final placement protect the handoff. Chunk payloads are transient and are not stored in Hub or Node command databases. The completed local file and its short destination message remain. A failed transfer can be retried with the same transfer ID.

Artifacts
    Promote important outputs when they should be tracked by WebSpider independently of a workspace path. Promotion records a SHA-256 digest and metadata on the Hub.

Worker status
    Workers may record working, blocked, completed, or idle with a concise evidence-bearing summary. This updates the portfolio without messaging the Master. They notify the Master only for delegated results, requested milestones, blockers, material risks, or decisions requiring coordination.

6. Agent-side control helper
----------------------------

Managed agents receive the executable path in:

    $WEBSPIDER_CONTROL

Common Master operations:

    $WEBSPIDER_CONTROL portfolio list
    $WEBSPIDER_CONTROL agents list
    $WEBSPIDER_CONTROL agents send --agent AGENT_ID --message TEXT
    $WEBSPIDER_CONTROL agents choose --agent AGENT_ID --option 1..9
    $WEBSPIDER_CONTROL files targets
    $WEBSPIDER_CONTROL files send --agent AGENT_ID --file PATH
    $WEBSPIDER_CONTROL tasks list
    $WEBSPIDER_CONTROL reminders list
    $WEBSPIDER_CONTROL policy show

Use the helper's own usage output for the exact options supported by the installed version. Workers receive a narrower helper and cannot inspect the whole portfolio, message or command peer workers, or edit policy. They can list only valid file-transfer destinations and send an explicit root-confined file to one of them.

`agents choose` is a Master-only answer to a visibly waiting numbered Codex prompt. It sends the bare digit to the live Sub-Spider terminal without a message header or Enter. Browser and Master input are lease-fenced; inspect before choosing and do not retry an uncertain PTY acknowledgement blindly.

7. Instructions and policy
--------------------------

System defaults
    Apply beneath all projects.

Project instructions
    Apply to the Master and workers for one project.

All Sub-Spiders
    The browser's shared Sub-Spider instruction editor adds compact Sub-Spider-only instructions without changing the Master.

Per-agent instructions
    The Instructions tab stores concise overrides for one agent. Saving affects the next launch; Save & restart activates them immediately.

Instruction changes are revisioned. Running agents keep their immutable launch snapshot until restarted.

8. Persistence and recovery
---------------------------

Browser closed or reloaded
    Safe. The PTY continues and the browser reattaches from a terminal snapshot.

Hub service restarted or temporarily offline
    Running node PTYs continue. Nodes reconnect, replay durable events, and queued messages/tasks resume.

Node daemon restarted
    Existing detached PTYs normally survive. The node reconciles the host boot ID, process start identity, process ID, FIFO, output offset, and exit marker before reporting its runtime inventory. A reused PID is never accepted as the old agent.

Whole node machine rebooted
    PTY processes do not survive. WebSpider detects the missing runtime and, when restart policy permits, launches a replacement agent. For Codex profiles, it first resumes the latest session from that WebSpider agent's dedicated Codex home, pinned to the registered project root. It also supplies up to the last 200,000 bytes of the prior terminal log through $WEBSPIDER_RECOVERY_CONTEXT and injects a durable recovery message.

Important limitation
    A session resume restores the Codex conversation, but an in-flight turn interrupted between checkpoints may still need reconciliation from the terminal tail and durable WebSpider thread. Managed Codex session files and terminal logs are node-local; they survive a reboot only when the machine's WebSpider state directory survives.

Update every WebSpider machine, including the Hub and Master
    Open Nodes and choose Update everything. WebSpider resolves the latest official release, sends every running spider a checkpoint request, and shows each acknowledgement separately. The ordinary working/completed label is advisory and is not used as update approval.

    A spider should finish its current operation, checkpoint durable work, run the exact `updates ready --rollout ID` command in the request, and end its turn. If an old helper does not know `updates`, the request includes a one-line compatibility command. Once acknowledged, that spider is frozen against direct terminal input until the rollout ends.

    Override / rescue remains available while the rollout waits. If a spider is clearly idle but fails to acknowledge, inspect its terminal and use the audited readiness override. For every active detached command, WebSpider shows the exact command and lets the owner choose Stop task and continue or Keep task running and continue. A kept command survives the service restart. Offline machines must reconnect and cannot be overridden.

    Remote nodes update first and report their installed versions. The Hub service updates last, restores the durable rollout record after restarting, and resumes every spider that was running before the update. Managed Codex sessions use `codex resume -C <registered-project> --last`; adopted sessions retain their configured selector. Agents that were already stopped remain stopped. Cancel is available only before package installation begins.

    The updater pins the resolved release and uses the official bootstrap/native-installer SHA-256 verification. A failed rollout attempts to resume stopped sessions and leaves its error and per-node progress visible on Nodes.

Adopting a pre-existing Codex session
    Open the agent's Agent actions menu and choose Adopt Codex session. Select the latest session for that project or enter its UUID/name. WebSpider uses that workstation user's normal Codex session store while keeping WebSpider's compact instructions in an isolated Codex home. It always supplies the registered project directory to `codex resume -C`; the browser never accepts an arbitrary host path. The chosen external session remains associated with that agent until detached from the same dialog.

Disk loss or corrupted state
    Not covered by restart recovery. Hub state, every node's WebSpider state, and project workspaces require independent backups on other storage. The current package does not yet provide a built-in webspider backup/restore command.

Direct terminal history
    Node-local terminal logs retain it while the node state survives, but direct keystrokes are not canonical WebSpider thread messages. Use durable messages for instructions you cannot afford to lose.

Work products
    WebSpider is not a substitute for Git remotes, data backups, or artifact storage. Commit checkpoints locally and push or back up irreplaceable code/results outside the workstation.

9. Recovery-oriented usage
--------------------------

For instructions that must be recoverable:
    Send them through the intended Master or Sub-Spider's Text box or Conversation tab.

For work that may outlive an agent turn:
    Use a detached task and a completion hook.

For a future follow-up:
    Use a reminder rather than relying on the agent to remember elapsed wall time.

For long specifications or reports:
    Use a document handoff.

For a large/binary file needed by another Spider:
    Run `files targets`, then `files send`. Keep both workstations online until it completes. Reuse the reported transfer ID when retrying an interrupted transfer.

For code or results:
    Keep a clean Git repository, commit checkpoints, and use an external remote or backup.

Before rebooting a node intentionally:
    Ask the worker to save/commit, report status, and stop at a clean boundary. A daemon/service restart is much less disruptive than a machine reboot.

After an unexpected reboot:
    Wait for the node to reconnect. The agent should return in the same Codex conversation and receive one WebSpider recovery message. Check its Conversation and Activity tabs before sending duplicate work.

10. Service and connectivity checks
-----------------------------------

Hub service:

    webspider service status

Worker service:

    webspider service status-node

General checks:

    webspider doctor

Owner login token on the Hub:

    webspider auth token

A healthy worker status includes connection_state online. If a node repeatedly reports "Node handshake expired", compare UTC clocks and restore NTP synchronization. If a workspace root was moved or deleted, repair the registered root without reusing a consumed enrollment token.

11. Security and authority
--------------------------

WebSpider assumes all managed agents have the permissions of their host user. Managed Codex profiles currently run unattended with full host-user access. Project/root APIs are confined, but the PTY process itself is not an OS sandbox.

Use a private tailnet or HTTPS reverse proxy. Do not expose the plain HTTP Hub directly to the public internet.

Enrollment tokens are short-lived and single-use. Node identities use local Ed25519 keys. Browser mutations require an authenticated session and CSRF token; WebSockets require the session and same origin.

Agents must not buy credits, change billing/authentication, redeem resets, or move work to API-funded execution. Those actions remain human-only.

12. What to do when something looks wrong
-----------------------------------------

Agent terminal alive but portal stale
    Reload once. Check Hub health and the node's online state.

Node offline
    Leave durable messages queued. Check the node user service and its connection status. Do not re-enroll unless identity recovery is genuinely impossible.

Agent process missing after reconnect
    WebSpider should mark the old runtime failed, start a replacement according to policy, attach recovery context, and inject a recovery message. Inspect the Activity and Conversation tabs.

Task appears stuck
    Inspect its task terminal and node status. Cancel only if the command should stop; otherwise preserve the task ID for diagnosis.

WebSpider itself broken
    Invoke the Meta-Spider from the package's documented prompt. The Meta-Spider should preserve state and identities, diagnose narrowly, and return normal control to the user and WebSpider agents.

13. Durability checklist for real projects
------------------------------------------

- Important user instructions sent as durable messages.
- Meaningful code/results committed to Git.
- Irreplaceable repositories and data backed up off-machine.
- Hub WebSpider state backed up off-machine.
- Every worker node's WebSpider state backed up off-machine if its Codex sessions or terminal history matter.
- Long-running work represented by tasks with completion hooks.
- Workers report status before planned machine reboots.
- Archived projects used instead of deletion unless permanent removal is intended.

If the question is about WebSpider operation, consult this file first. If behavior differs, trust the installed version's UI/help and report the discrepancy to the Meta-Spider.
